docs/source/GA_STP.rst, before:

GA in a Realistic Landscape
------------

In this example, we will be testing some of `MGSurvE <https://github.com/Chipdelmal/MGSurvE>`_'s capabilities to optimize realistic landscapes.
We will use the São Tomé landscape (in equatorial Africa) to test out an optimal positioning of traps to minimize time to detection of a transgene.


.. image:: ../../img/STP_10_CLN.jpg
    :align: center


To do so, we will use an external point-set dataset, and an independently-generated migration matrix.


Reading Spatial Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This time we'll be reading the coordinates from a CSV file. An excerpt of this file looks like this:

.. code-block:: python

    lon,lat,pop
    7.35312,1.59888,42
    7.37718,1.6205,93
    7.37951,1.67867,1
    7.38006,1.64933,144
    7.38039,1.65644,56
    ...

We will read the coordinates and store them in a dataframe as before with all sites being the same type :code:`0`.

.. code-block:: python

    sites = pd.read_csv('stp_cluster_sites_pop_v5_fixed.csv')
    sites['t'] = [0]*sites.shape[0]


As our original file contains locations for both São Tomé & Príncipe, this time we will subset the sites and matrices to contain only the latter part of the elements (index controlled by :code:`IX_SPLIT`)
For now, we will rename the :code:`lon, lat` columns to :code:`x, y` so that we can work with Euclidean geometry as the distances are quite short (in future updates we will include operators for spherical geometries):

.. code-block:: python

    SAO_TOME_LL = sites.iloc[IX_SPLIT:]
    SAO_bbox = (
        (min(SAO_TOME_LL['lon']), max(SAO_TOME_LL['lon'])),
        (min(SAO_TOME_LL['lat']), max(SAO_TOME_LL['lat']))
    )
    SAO_TOME_LL = SAO_TOME_LL .rename(
        columns={'lon': 'x', 'lat': 'y'}
    )

And, we define our bounding box manually for visualization purposes:

.. code-block:: python

    SAO_LIMITS = ((6.41, 6.79), (-0.0475, .45))

Finally, we load the migration matrix (generated independently), subset the desired region, set the diagonal to :code:`0`, and re-normalize:

.. code-block:: python

    migration = np.genfromtxt('kernel_cluster_v6a.csv', delimiter=',')
    msplit = migration[IX_SPLIT:,IX_SPLIT:]
    np.fill_diagonal(msplit, DIAG_VAL)
    SAO_TOME_MIG = normalize(msplit, axis=1, norm='l1')


Setting Traps Up
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now, we will setup some traps in the environment (controlled by the :code:`TRPS_NUM` variable) in random uniform locations:

.. code-block:: python

    nullTraps = [0]*TRPS_NUM
    (lonTrap, latTrap) = (
        np.random.uniform(SAO_bbox[0][0], SAO_bbox[0][1], TRPS_NUM),
        np.random.uniform(SAO_bbox[1][0], SAO_bbox[1][1], TRPS_NUM)
    )
    traps = pd.DataFrame({
        'x': lonTrap, 'y': latTrap,
        't': nullTraps, 'f': nullTraps
    })
    tKer = {0: {'kernel': srv.exponentialDecay, 'params': {'A': .5, 'b': 100}}}



Defining Landscape
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now, as we'd like to plot our landscape in a coordinate system, we define our object with the :code:`ccrs.PlateCarree()` projection using `cartopy <https://scitools.org.uk/cartopy/docs/v0.15/index.html>`_:

.. code-block:: python

    lnd = srv.Landscape(
        SAO_TOME_LL, migrationMatrix=SAO_TOME_MIG,
        traps=traps, trapsKernels=tKer,
        projection=ccrs.PlateCarree(),
        landLimits=SAO_LIMITS,
    )
    bbox = lnd.getBoundingBox()
    trpMsk = srv.genFixedTrapsMask(lnd.trapsFixed)

And now, we generate our geo axes and figure:

.. code-block:: python

    (fig, ax) = (
        plt.figure(figsize=(15, 15)),
        plt.axes(projection=lnd.projection)
    )
    lnd.plotSites(fig, ax, size=100)
    lnd.plotTraps(fig, ax)
    lnd.plotMigrationNetwork(
        fig, ax, 
        lineWidth=5, alphaMin=.5, alphaAmplitude=2.5,
    )
    lnd.plotLandBoundary(fig, ax)
    srv.plotClean(fig, ax, bbox=lnd.landLimits)


.. image:: ../../img/STP_10_CLN.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 400px


Setting GA Up
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Next thing to do is to setup our GA's variables for optimization:

.. code-block:: python

    POP_SIZE = int(10*(lnd.trapsNumber*1.25))
    (MAT, MUT, SEL) = (
        {'mate': .35, 'cxpb': 0.5}, 
        {
            'mean': 0, 
            'sd': min([abs(i[1]-i[0]) for i in bbox])/5, 
            'mutpb': .35, 'ipb': .5
        },
        {'tSize': 5}
    )
    VERBOSE = True
    lndGA = deepcopy(lnd)


And to register all the optimization operators:

.. code-block:: python

    toolbox = base.Toolbox()
    creator.create("FitnessMin", 
        base.Fitness, weights=(-1.0, )
    )
    creator.create("Individual", 
        list, fitness=creator.FitnessMin
    )
    toolbox.register("initChromosome", srv.initChromosome, 
        trapsCoords=lndGA.trapsCoords, 
        fixedTrapsMask=trpMsk, coordsRange=bbox
    )
    toolbox.register("individualCreator", tools.initIterate, 
        creator.Individual, toolbox.initChromosome
    )
    toolbox.register("populationCreator", tools.initRepeat, 
        list, toolbox.individualCreator
    )
    toolbox.register(
        "mate", tools.cxBlend, 
        alpha=MAT['mate']
    )
    toolbox.register(
        "mutate", tools.mutGaussian, 
        mu=MUT['mean'], sigma=MUT['sd'], indpb=MUT['ipb']
    )
    toolbox.register("select", 
        tools.selTournament, tournsize=SEL['tSize']
    )
    toolbox.register("evaluate", 
        srv.calcFitness, 
        landscape=lndGA,
        optimFunction=srv.getDaysTillTrapped,
        optimFunctionArgs={'outer': np.mean, 'inner': np.max}
    )

Finally, we setup our statistics:

.. code-block:: python

    pop = toolbox.populationCreator(n=POP_SIZE)
    hof = tools.HallOfFame(1)
    stats = tools.Statistics(lambda ind: ind.fitness.values)   
    stats.register("min", np.min)
    stats.register("avg", np.mean)
    stats.register("max", np.max)
    stats.register("best", lambda fitnessValues: fitnessValues.index(min(fitnessValues)))
    stats.register("traps", lambda fitnessValues: pop[fitnessValues.index(min(fitnessValues))])


This is done the same way it has been done for previous examples, so no changes are needed in this part.

Optimizing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We now run our optimization routine as we have done before, and store the results:

.. code-block:: python

    (pop, logbook) = algorithms.eaSimple(
        pop, toolbox, cxpb=MAT['cxpb'], mutpb=MUT['mutpb'], ngen=GENS, 
        stats=stats, halloffame=hof, verbose=VERBOSE
    )
    bestChromosome = hof[0]
    bestTraps = np.reshape(bestChromosome, (-1, 2))
    lnd.updateTrapsCoords(bestTraps)
    dta = pd.DataFrame(logbook)


Plotting Results
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Finally, we can plot our landscape with the optimized traps' locations:

.. code-block:: python

    (fig, ax) = (
        plt.figure(figsize=(15, 15)),
        plt.axes(projection=lnd.projection)
    )
    lnd.plotSites(fig, ax)
    lnd.plotMigrationNetwork(
        fig, ax, 
        lineWidth=5, alphaMin=.5, alphaAmplitude=5,
    )
    lnd.plotTraps(fig, ax, zorders=(25, 20))
    srv.plotFitness(fig, ax, min(dta['min']), fmt='{:.2f}')
    lnd.plotLandBoundary(fig, ax)
    srv.plotClean(fig, ax, bbox=lnd.landLimits)


.. image:: ../../img/STP_10_TRP.jpg
    :align: center


For the full code used in this demo, follow this `link <https://github.com/Chipdelmal/MGSurvE/blob/main/MGSurvE/demos/Paper/STP.py>`_.

Commit message:

All demos in docs now have a simplified version

docs/source/GA_STP.rst, after:

GA in a Realistic Landscape
------------

In this example, we will be testing some of `MGSurvE <https://github.com/Chipdelmal/MGSurvE>`_'s capabilities to optimize realistic landscapes.
We will use the São Tomé landscape (in equatorial Africa) to test out an optimal positioning of traps to minimize time to detection of a transgene.


.. image:: ../../img/STP_10_CLN.jpg
    :align: center


To do so, we will use an external point-set dataset, and an independently-generated migration matrix.


Reading Spatial Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This time we'll be reading the coordinates from a CSV file. An excerpt of this file looks like this:

.. code-block:: python

    lon,lat,pop
    7.35312,1.59888,42
    7.37718,1.6205,93
    7.37951,1.67867,1
    7.38006,1.64933,144
    7.38039,1.65644,56
    ...

We will read the coordinates and store them in a dataframe as before with all sites being the same type :code:`0`.

.. code-block:: python

    sites = pd.read_csv('stp_cluster_sites_pop_v5_fixed.csv')
    sites['t'] = [0]*sites.shape[0]


As our original file contains locations for both São Tomé & Príncipe, this time we will subset the sites and matrices to contain only the latter part of the elements (index controlled by :code:`IX_SPLIT`)
For now, we will rename the :code:`lon, lat` columns to :code:`x, y` so that we can work with Euclidean geometry as the distances are quite short (in future updates we will include operators for spherical geometries):

.. code-block:: python

    SAO_TOME_LL = sites.iloc[IX_SPLIT:]
    SAO_bbox = (
        (min(SAO_TOME_LL['lon']), max(SAO_TOME_LL['lon'])),
        (min(SAO_TOME_LL['lat']), max(SAO_TOME_LL['lat']))
    )
    SAO_TOME_LL = SAO_TOME_LL .rename(
        columns={'lon': 'x', 'lat': 'y'}
    )

And, we define our bounding box manually for visualization purposes:

.. code-block:: python

    SAO_LIMITS = ((6.41, 6.79), (-0.0475, .45))

Finally, we load the migration matrix (generated independently), subset the desired region, set the diagonal to :code:`0`, and re-normalize:

.. code-block:: python

    migration = np.genfromtxt('kernel_cluster_v6a.csv', delimiter=',')
    msplit = migration[IX_SPLIT:,IX_SPLIT:]
    np.fill_diagonal(msplit, DIAG_VAL)
    SAO_TOME_MIG = normalize(msplit, axis=1, norm='l1')


Setting Traps Up
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now, we will setup some traps in the environment (controlled by the :code:`TRPS_NUM` variable) in random uniform locations:

.. code-block:: python

    nullTraps = [0]*TRPS_NUM
    (lonTrap, latTrap) = (
        np.random.uniform(SAO_bbox[0][0], SAO_bbox[0][1], TRPS_NUM),
        np.random.uniform(SAO_bbox[1][0], SAO_bbox[1][1], TRPS_NUM)
    )
    traps = pd.DataFrame({
        'x': lonTrap, 'y': latTrap,
        't': nullTraps, 'f': nullTraps
    })
    tKer = {0: {'kernel': srv.exponentialDecay, 'params': {'A': .5, 'b': 100}}}



Defining Landscape
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now, as we'd like to plot our landscape in a coordinate system, we define our object with the :code:`ccrs.PlateCarree()` projection using `cartopy <https://scitools.org.uk/cartopy/docs/v0.15/index.html>`_:

.. code-block:: python

    lnd = srv.Landscape(
        SAO_TOME_LL, migrationMatrix=SAO_TOME_MIG,
        traps=traps, trapsKernels=tKer,
        projection=ccrs.PlateCarree(),
        landLimits=SAO_LIMITS,
    )
    bbox = lnd.getBoundingBox()
    trpMsk = srv.genFixedTrapsMask(lnd.trapsFixed)

And now, we generate our geo axes and figure:

.. code-block:: python

    (fig, ax) = (
        plt.figure(figsize=(15, 15)),
        plt.axes(projection=lnd.projection)
    )
    lnd.plotSites(fig, ax, size=100)
    lnd.plotTraps(fig, ax)
    lnd.plotMigrationNetwork(
        fig, ax, 
        lineWidth=5, alphaMin=.5, alphaAmplitude=2.5,
    )
    lnd.plotLandBoundary(fig, ax)
    srv.plotClean(fig, ax, bbox=lnd.landLimits)


.. image:: ../../img/STP_10_CLN.jpg
    :align: center
    :width: 400px


Setting GA Up
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Next thing to do is to setup our GA's variables for optimization:

.. code-block:: python

    POP_SIZE = int(10*(lnd.trapsNumber*1.25))
    (MAT, MUT, SEL) = (
        {'mate': .35, 'cxpb': 0.5}, 
        {
            'mean': 0, 
            'sd': min([abs(i[1]-i[0]) for i in bbox])/5, 
            'mutpb': .35, 'ipb': .5
        },
        {'tSize': 5}
    )
    VERBOSE = True
    lndGA = deepcopy(lnd)


And to register all the optimization operators:

.. code-block:: python

    toolbox = base.Toolbox()
    creator.create("FitnessMin", 
        base.Fitness, weights=(-1.0, )
    )
    creator.create("Individual", 
        list, fitness=creator.FitnessMin
    )
    toolbox.register("initChromosome", srv.initChromosome, 
        trapsCoords=lndGA.trapsCoords, 
        fixedTrapsMask=trpMsk, coordsRange=bbox
    )
    toolbox.register("individualCreator", tools.initIterate, 
        creator.Individual, toolbox.initChromosome
    )
    toolbox.register("populationCreator", tools.initRepeat, 
        list, toolbox.individualCreator
    )
    toolbox.register(
        "mate", tools.cxBlend, 
        alpha=MAT['mate']
    )
    toolbox.register(
        "mutate", tools.mutGaussian, 
        mu=MUT['mean'], sigma=MUT['sd'], indpb=MUT['ipb']
    )
    toolbox.register("select", 
        tools.selTournament, tournsize=SEL['tSize']
    )
    toolbox.register("evaluate", 
        srv.calcFitness, 
        landscape=lndGA,
        optimFunction=srv.getDaysTillTrapped,
        optimFunctionArgs={'outer': np.mean, 'inner': np.max}
    )

Finally, we setup our statistics:

.. code-block:: python

    pop = toolbox.populationCreator(n=POP_SIZE)
    hof = tools.HallOfFame(1)
    stats = tools.Statistics(lambda ind: ind.fitness.values)   
    stats.register("min", np.min)
    stats.register("avg", np.mean)
    stats.register("max", np.max)
    stats.register("best", lambda fitnessValues: fitnessValues.index(min(fitnessValues)))
    stats.register("traps", lambda fitnessValues: pop[fitnessValues.index(min(fitnessValues))])


This is done the same way it has been done for previous examples, so no changes are needed in this part.

Optimizing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We now run our optimization routine as we have done before, and store the results:

.. code-block:: python

    (pop, logbook) = algorithms.eaSimple(
        pop, toolbox, cxpb=MAT['cxpb'], mutpb=MUT['mutpb'], ngen=GENS, 
        stats=stats, halloffame=hof, verbose=VERBOSE
    )
    bestChromosome = hof[0]
    bestTraps = np.reshape(bestChromosome, (-1, 2))
    lnd.updateTrapsCoords(bestTraps)
    dta = pd.DataFrame(logbook)


Plotting Results
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Finally, we can plot our landscape with the optimized traps' locations:

.. code-block:: python

    (fig, ax) = (
        plt.figure(figsize=(15, 15)),
        plt.axes(projection=lnd.projection)
    )
    lnd.plotSites(fig, ax)
    lnd.plotMigrationNetwork(
        fig, ax, 
        lineWidth=5, alphaMin=.5, alphaAmplitude=5,
    )
    lnd.plotTraps(fig, ax, zorders=(25, 20))
    srv.plotFitness(fig, ax, min(dta['min']), fmt='{:.2f}')
    lnd.plotLandBoundary(fig, ax)
    srv.plotClean(fig, ax, bbox=lnd.landLimits)


.. image:: ../../img/STP_10_TRP.jpg
    :align: center


For the full code used in this demo, follow this `link <https://github.com/Chipdelmal/MGSurvE/blob/main/MGSurvE/demos/Paper/STP.py>`_, with the simplified version available `here <https://github.com/Chipdelmal/MGSurvE/blob/main/MGSurvE/demos/Paper/STP-Simple.py>`_.
