MGSurvE/demos/STP/README.md, before:

# São Tomé Demo

Code required to replicate the "Discrete optimization on an island landscape (*An. coluzzii* in São Tomé, São Tomé and Príncipe)" demo of our publication. Please note that this example requires intermediate to advanced understanding of the MGSurvE framework. To get started with these concepts please have a look at our [documentation's tutorials](https://chipdelmal.github.io/MGSurvE/build/html/demos.html).

## [STP-Discrete](./STP-Discrete.py)

Runs the main optimization cycle. Inputs for the file are:

* `FXD_TRPS`: If `True`, two traps are set as immovable; otherwise, they are all optimizible.
* `AP`: Optimization summary stat identifier
    * `'man'` uses `np.mean`
    * `'sum'` uses `np.sum`
    * `'max'` uses `np.max`
* `TRPS_NUM`: Number of traps to distribute.
* `RID`: Run ID number (for repeated iterations of the cycle).

To re-run the whole dataset shown in our publication, run `bash STP_Discrete.sh` but beware that this is a computationally-intensive task that will likely take several days to finish.

## [STP-Compare](./STP-Compare.py)

Runs the analysis out of the optimization cycle. Inputs for the file follow:

* `ID`: Landscape identifier (`STPD` for São Tomé Discrete)
* `AP`: Optimization summary stat identifier
    * `'man'` uses `np.mean`
    * `'sum'` uses `np.sum`
    * `'max'` uses `np.max`


## [STP-Video](./STP-Video.py)

Generates the frames required to generate the videos that accompany our publication. Running `bash STP-Videos.sh` will export a video for each repetition of each optimization cycle, but is also quite computationally-expensive and will take several days to finish.

Commit message:

Improving description in README for STP/YKN

MGSurvE/demos/STP/README.md, after:

# São Tomé Demo

Code required to replicate the "Discrete optimization on an island landscape (*An. coluzzii* in São Tomé, São Tomé and Príncipe)" demo of our publication. Please note that this example requires intermediate to advanced understanding of the MGSurvE framework. To get started with these concepts please have a look at our [documentation's tutorials](https://chipdelmal.github.io/MGSurvE/build/html/demos.html).

## Quick instructions

To run these scripts download the whole folder (including the `GEO` subfolder, which contains the points dataset) to your local computer. After installing MGSurvE (including its [cartopy](https://scitools.org.uk/cartopy/docs/latest/) dependency), run the main file `STP-Discrete.py`. This can be done either in an interactive session, or from the terminal as follows:

```bash
python STP-Discrete.py 'True' 'max' 10 01
```

where the arguments correspond to the ones described in the following section of this document. The output files will be exported to a `sims_out` folder in the same directory by default.

## Files Description

### [STP-Discrete](./STP-Discrete.py)

Runs the main optimization cycle. Inputs for the file are:

* `FXD_TRPS`: If `True`, two traps are set as immovable; otherwise, they are all optimizible.
* `AP`: Optimization summary stat identifier
    * `'man'` uses `np.mean`
    * `'sum'` uses `np.sum`
    * `'max'` uses `np.max`
* `TRPS_NUM`: Number of traps to distribute.
* `RID`: Run ID number (for repeated iterations of the cycle).

To re-run the whole dataset shown in our publication, run `bash STP_Discrete.sh` but beware that this is a computationally-intensive task that will likely take several days to finish.

### [STP-Compare](./STP-Compare.py)

Runs the analysis out of the optimization cycle. Inputs for the file follow:

* `ID`: Landscape identifier (`STPD` for São Tomé Discrete)
* `AP`: Optimization summary stat identifier
    * `'man'` uses `np.mean`
    * `'sum'` uses `np.sum`
    * `'max'` uses `np.max`


### [STP-Video](./STP-Video.py)

Generates the frames required to generate the videos that accompany our publication. Running `bash STP-Videos.sh` will export a video for each repetition of each optimization cycle, but is also quite computationally-expensive and will take several days to finish.

### [auxiliary](./auxiliary.py)

Contains functions that are not part of MGSurvE but which are required by the other scripts to run correctly.
